why focus on social media marketing over
SEO you're probably surprised to hear
this after all I'm mostly known for all
things SEO so why do I focus on social
media Market
because I've learned that it's one of
the quickest and most effective ways to
drive major traffic to any site that
doesn't mean to say that SEO doesn't
work it does and I still love it heck my
company relies upon it our clients do
and SEO has created me one of the
largest companies in the marketing space
heck it's created me one of the fastest
growing companies in the United States
according to Inc magazine as well but
here's an interesting stat for you 74 of
social media users actually use social
media to make buying decisions
influencers and social marketplaces are
huge these days and they can quickly and
effectively promote your products and
services
and half of adult internet users say
that when a brand incorporates their
data into social ads it helps them
discover products or services that
directly align with what they're looking
for in essence companies are using those
targeted ads that a lot of people say
they never click on and don't work but
in reality people are clicking on them
if they wouldn't Google and Facebook
wouldn't be as big of a companies as
they actually are and if you're
targeting younger audiences they're all
over Tick Tock and Instagram right now
and even Snapchat prabhakar rajavan a
senior vice president at Google said at
a 2022 conference that in our studies
something like almost 40 percent of
young people when they're looking for a
place for lunch they don't just go to
Google Maps or search instead they go to
tick tock or Instagram
and if a major Google executive is
sweating the rise of social media that
means you should be paying attention the
amount of time that adults use social
media across every platform per day is
higher than ever 95 minutes that's more
than an hour and a half that's a ton of
time plenty of time for your ads to be
seen and ultimately convert it on
Instagram story ads will bring in almost
16 billion in sales worldwide in 2022
according to HootSuite
think about how quick and easy it is to
create an Instagram story and how
inexpensive it is a major reason why I
love social over SEO and again it
doesn't mean I don't like SEO it just
means that I love social media and you
should use all channels social also
allows me to quickly pivot again love
SEO but because it takes a long time to
see results with social media you can
see results instantly and you can pivot
and figure out what's working and adapt
that to your SEO strategy as well see
social is rapidly changing environment
but I can see what's working and what's
not right away and I don't have to wait
for an algorithm update or I don't have
to wait for someone to index my content
but at this point you're probably
wondering Neil social algorithms they
keep compressing my reach and yeah you
talked about ads so why should I love
social media because I don't want to
spend all that money on ads well think
of it this way all platforms whether
they're social or search have algorithms
it doesn't matter if it's tick tock or
Google or Bing you can't control what
they do and over time they have all made
it harder to get reach Google keeps
showing more content within their search
results so that way you don't have to
click through over to their website and
if you're wondering what I mean just
Google what the weather is today within
your city and you'll see what I'm
talking about it just shows you the
weather you don't have to click on
weather.com or go to any site you just
see it right then and there Tick Tock
used to have much better reach a year
ago than it does today still a great
platform just like Google they take up a
lot of the clicks these days but it's
still a great search engine
but you can't do that much about it so
instead of complaining about Google
YouTube or LinkedIn or Tick Tock or
Instagram as a marketer you just have to
use these channels for what they are
whether you like them or not and there's
a lot of platforms out there for you to
use so maximize them and get as much
traffic as you can from them and as I
mentioned earlier it's easier to see
quick gains from social media over SEO
now to be clear I'm not saying that you
should use one channel and not the other
because that's far from the truth you
need to actually take an omni-channel
approach and use all the channels that
your customers are on but at least you
know why I prefer social media over SEO
even though I use both of them and you
should too
want help driving more Engagement online
I want you to connect with my Ad Agency
NP digital where we are the agency of
the year in Performance Marketing if you
have any questions you can leave a
comment below and if you enjoyed the
video share it tell the people about it
subscribe